python-utility/OAUTH_MIGRATION.md, before:

# OAuth Migration Guide

## Overview

This version of the python-utility has been updated to use **OAuth authentication** instead of Personal Access Tokens (PAT). OAuth provides better security and allows for automatic token refresh.

## What Changed

### Version 1.x (PAT-based)
- Used `SMARTTHINGS_PAT` environment variable
- Required manual token rotation
- No automatic token refresh

### Version 2.0 (OAuth-based)
- Uses OAuth 2.0 flow with refresh tokens
- Automatic token refresh before expiration
- Persistent token storage across restarts
- Falls back to PAT if OAuth is not configured
- New endpoints for OAuth authorization

## Migration Steps

### Option 1: Using Existing Refresh Token (Recommended)

If you already have a SmartThings OAuth refresh token:

1. **Set environment variables** in your `.env` file:
   ```env
   # Required for OAuth
   ST_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
   ST_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret  # Optional but recommended
   ST_REFRESH_TOKEN=your-refresh-token
   
   # Optional - customize token storage location
   TOKEN_FILE=/app/data/oauth_tokens.json
   OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI=http://your-server:5000/oauth/callback
   SECRET_KEY=your-secret-key-for-flask-sessions
   
   # Your existing device configuration
   TV_DEVICE_ID_S95=your-tv-device-id
   TV_APP_ID=your-app-id
   ```

2. **Deploy the updated container**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose down
   docker-compose up --build -d
   ```

3. **Verify authentication**:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:5000/config
   ```

   You should see:
   ```json
   {
     "auth_method": "OAuth",
     "auth_configured": true,
     "oauth_token_valid": true
   }
   ```

### Option 2: New OAuth Authorization Flow

If you need to obtain a new OAuth refresh token:

1. **Configure SmartThings Developer Workspace**:
   - Go to https://smartthings.developer.samsung.com/
   - Register your application
   - Add OAuth redirect URI: `http://your-server:5000/oauth/callback`
   - Note your Client ID and Client Secret

2. **Set minimum environment variables**:
   ```env
   ST_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
   ST_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
   OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI=http://your-server:5000/oauth/callback
   SECRET_KEY=your-secret-key
   ```

3. **Start the container**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build -d
   ```

4. **Initiate OAuth flow**:
   - Visit: `http://your-server:5000/oauth/authorize`
   - Log in with your SmartThings account
   - Grant permissions
   - You'll be redirected back with success message

5. **Verify tokens are saved**:
   ```bash
   # Check the token file exists
   docker exec tv-app-launcher ls -la /app/data/
   
   # Verify configuration
   curl http://localhost:5000/config
   ```

### Option 3: Continue Using PAT (Not Recommended)

If you want to continue using PAT temporarily:

1. **Keep your existing configuration**:
   ```env
   SMARTTHINGS_PAT=your-pat-token
   ```

2. **The application will automatically use PAT** if OAuth is not configured

3. **Plan migration to OAuth** - PAT support may be removed in future versions

## New Endpoints

### `/oauth/authorize` (GET)
Initiates the OAuth authorization flow. Redirects to SmartThings login.

**Usage:**
```bash
# Open in browser
http://your-server:5000/oauth/authorize
```

### `/oauth/callback` (GET)
OAuth callback endpoint. Handles the authorization response and saves tokens.

**This endpoint is called automatically** by SmartThings after user authorization.

### `/config` (GET) - Enhanced
Now shows OAuth status and token expiration.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "auth_method": "OAuth",
  "auth_configured": true,
  "oauth_token_valid": true,
  "token_expires_at": "2026-01-20T15:30:00"
}
```

## Token Management

### Token Storage
- Tokens are stored in `/app/data/oauth_tokens.json`
- The file persists across container restarts via Docker volume
- Contains: `access_token`, `refresh_token`, `expires_at`, `updated_at`

### Automatic Token Refresh
- Access tokens are automatically refreshed before expiration
- Refresh happens on startup if token is expired
- Refresh happens before API calls if token will expire soon (5-minute buffer)
- New refresh tokens are automatically saved if provided

### Manual Token Refresh
If you need to manually check/refresh tokens:

```bash
# View current token status
curl http://localhost:5000/config

# Make any API call - token will auto-refresh if needed
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/launch-tv-app \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"target_device": "s95"}'
```

## Troubleshooting

### "No authentication token available"
- **Check**: OAuth credentials are set in environment variables
- **Check**: Token file exists and is readable
- **Solution**: Run OAuth authorization flow or set ST_REFRESH_TOKEN

### "Token refresh failed: 401"
- **Cause**: Refresh token is invalid or expired
- **Solution**: Re-run OAuth authorization flow to get new tokens

### "OAuth client ID not configured"
- **Cause**: ST_CLIENT_ID environment variable is missing
- **Solution**: Add ST_CLIENT_ID to your .env file

### Token file not persisting
- **Check**: Docker volume is properly mounted
- **Check**: Directory permissions (should be writable)
- **Solution**: Verify docker-compose.yml has volume mapping:
  ```yaml
  volumes:
    - /share/Container/tv-app-launcher/data:/app/data
  ```

## Security Considerations

1. **Token File Security**
   - The `oauth_tokens.json` file contains sensitive credentials
   - Ensure proper file permissions (600 or 640)
   - Don't commit this file to version control

2. **Environment Variables**
   - Store sensitive values in `.env` file
   - Don't commit `.env` to version control
   - Use Docker secrets in production environments

3. **Client Secret**
   - Keep your ST_CLIENT_SECRET confidential
   - Use environment variables, never hardcode
   - Rotate periodically

4. **Flask Secret Key**
   - Set a strong SECRET_KEY for production
   - Required for session management
   - Change from default value

## Required Scopes

The application requires these SmartThings OAuth scopes:
- `r:devices:*` - Read device information
- `x:devices:*` - Execute device commands

Add these when configuring your OAuth application in SmartThings Developer Workspace.

## Rollback

If you need to rollback to PAT-based authentication:

1. Ensure `SMARTTHINGS_PAT` is set in your environment
2. Remove or unset OAuth variables (`ST_CLIENT_ID`, `ST_REFRESH_TOKEN`)
3. Restart the container

The application will automatically detect and use PAT when OAuth is not configured.

## Support

For issues or questions:
- Check logs: `docker logs tv-app-launcher`
- Verify configuration: `curl http://localhost:5000/config`
- Review environment variables: `docker exec tv-app-launcher env | grep ST_`

Commit message:

refactor: Use external OAuth callback for local NAS deployment
- Change OAuth callback from local endpoint to GitHub Pages (tv-weather-oauth)
- Replace /oauth/callback (GET) with /oauth/token (POST) for manual code exchange
- Update /oauth/authorize to return authorization URL instead of redirecting
- Modify default OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI to use external callback page
- Update all documentation to reflect manual OAuth flow
- Add EXTERNAL_CALLBACK_ARCHITECTURE.md explaining the design

Why this change:
- Service runs on local NAS (not internet-accessible)
- SmartThings cannot callback to local endpoint
- Reuses existing tv-weather-oauth GitHub Pages callback
- Same pattern as Samsung TV Weather App

Manual OAuth Flow:
1. GET /oauth/authorize -> returns auth URL
2. User opens URL in browser -> authorizes -> gets code from callback page
3. POST /oauth/token with code -> exchanges for tokens
4. Tokens saved and auto-refreshed

This maintains security while working around local network limitations.

python-utility/OAUTH_MIGRATION.md, after:

# OAuth Migration Guide

## Overview

This version of the python-utility has been updated to use **OAuth authentication** instead of Personal Access Tokens (PAT). OAuth provides better security and allows for automatic token refresh.

**Important for Local NAS Deployment**: Since this service runs on a local NAS (not internet-accessible), it uses an **external OAuth callback** hosted on GitHub Pages (from the tv-weather-oauth project). This is the same callback mechanism used by the Samsung TV Weather App.

## What Changed

### Version 1.x (PAT-based)
- Used `SMARTTHINGS_PAT` environment variable
- Required manual token rotation
- No automatic token refresh

### Version 2.0 (OAuth-based)
- Uses OAuth 2.0 flow with refresh tokens
- Automatic token refresh before expiration
- Persistent token storage across restarts
- **Manual authorization flow** (suitable for local NAS)
- External callback via GitHub Pages
- Falls back to PAT if OAuth is not configured
- New endpoints for OAuth authorization

## Migration Steps

### Option 1: Using Existing Refresh Token (Recommended)

If you already have a SmartThings OAuth refresh token:

1. **Set environment variables** in your `.env` file:
   ```env
   # Required for OAuth
   ST_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
   ST_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret  # Optional but recommended
   ST_REFRESH_TOKEN=your-refresh-token
   
   # Optional - customize token storage location
   TOKEN_FILE=/app/data/oauth_tokens.json
   # External OAuth callback (GitHub Pages) - DO NOT change unless you host your own
   OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI=https://tatuvlak.github.io/tv-weather-oauth/callback.html
   SECRET_KEY=your-secret-key-for-flask-sessions
   
   # Your existing device configuration
   TV_DEVICE_ID_S95=your-tv-device-id
   TV_APP_ID=your-app-id
   ```

2. **Deploy the updated container**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose down
   docker-compose up --build -d
   ```

3. **Verify authentication**:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:5000/config
   ```

   You should see:
   ```json
   {
     "auth_method": "OAuth",
     "auth_configured": true,
     "oauth_token_valid": true
   }
   ```

### Option 2: New OAuth Authorization Flow

If you need to obtain a new OAuth refresh token:

1. **Configure SmartThings Developer Workspace**:
   - Go to https://smartthings.developer.samsung.com/
   - Register your application (or use existing OAuth client)
   - Add OAuth redirect URI: `https://tatuvlak.github.io/tv-weather-oauth/callback.html`
     - **Important**: Use the external GitHub Pages URL (same as TV Weather app)
   - Note your Client ID and Client Secret

2. **Set minimum environment variables**:
   ```env
   ST_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
   ST_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
   OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI=https://tatuvlak.github.io/tv-weather-oauth/callback.html
   SECRET_KEY=your-secret-key
   ```

3. **Start the container**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build -d
   ```

4. **Initiate OAuth flow** (manual process for local NAS):
   
   a. Get authorization URL:
   ```bash
   curl http://your-nas-ip:5000/oauth/authorize
   ```
   
   b. Copy the `authorization_url` from the response and open it in your browser
   
   c. Log in with your SmartThings account and grant permissions
   
   d. You'll be redirected to the callback page (GitHub Pages) showing your authorization code
   
   e. Copy the code and submit it to your service:
   ```bash
   curl -X POST http://your-nas-ip:5000/oauth/token \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"code": "paste-your-code-here"}'
   ```

5. **Verify tokens are saved**:
   ```bash
   # Check the token file exists
   docker exec tv-app-launcher ls -la /app/data/
   
   # Verify configuration
   curl http://your-nas-ip:5000/config
   ```

### Option 3: Continue Using PAT (Not Recommended)

If you want to continue using PAT temporarily:

1. **Keep your existing configuration**:
   ```env
   SMARTTHINGS_PAT=your-pat-token
   ```

2. **The application will automatically use PAT** if OAuth is not configured

3. **Plan migration to OAuth** - PAT support may be removed in future versions

## New Endpoints

### `/oauth/authorize` (GET)
Initiates the OAuth authorization flow. Redirects to SmartThings login.

**Usage:**
```bash
# Open in browser
http://your-server:5000/oauth/authorize
```

### `/oauth/callback` (GET)
OAuth callback endpoint. Handles the authorization response and saves tokens.

**This endpoint is called automatically** by SmartThings after user authorization.

### `/config` (GET) - Enhanced
Now shows OAuth status and token expiration.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "auth_method": "OAuth",
  "auth_configured": true,
  "oauth_token_valid": true,
  "token_expires_at": "2026-01-20T15:30:00"
}
```

## Token Management

### Token Storage
- Tokens are stored in `/app/data/oauth_tokens.json`
- The file persists across container restarts via Docker volume
- Contains: `access_token`, `refresh_token`, `expires_at`, `updated_at`

### Automatic Token Refresh
- Access tokens are automatically refreshed before expiration
- Refresh happens on startup if token is expired
- Refresh happens before API calls if token will expire soon (5-minute buffer)
- New refresh tokens are automatically saved if provided

### Manual Token Refresh
If you need to manually check/refresh tokens:

```bash
# View current token status
curl http://localhost:5000/config

# Make any API call - token will auto-refresh if needed
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/launch-tv-app \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"target_device": "s95"}'
```

## Troubleshooting

### "No authentication token available"
- **Check**: OAuth credentials are set in environment variables
- **Check**: Token file exists and is readable
- **Solution**: Run OAuth authorization flow or set ST_REFRESH_TOKEN

### "Token refresh failed: 401"
- **Cause**: Refresh token is invalid or expired
- **Solution**: Re-run OAuth authorization flow to get new tokens

### "OAuth client ID not configured"
- **Cause**: ST_CLIENT_ID environment variable is missing
- **Solution**: Add ST_CLIENT_ID to your .env file

### Token file not persisting
- **Check**: Docker volume is properly mounted
- **Check**: Directory permissions (should be writable)
- **Solution**: Verify docker-compose.yml has volume mapping:
  ```yaml
  volumes:
    - /share/Container/tv-app-launcher/data:/app/data
  ```

## Security Considerations

1. **Token File Security**
   - The `oauth_tokens.json` file contains sensitive credentials
   - Ensure proper file permissions (600 or 640)
   - Don't commit this file to version control

2. **Environment Variables**
   - Store sensitive values in `.env` file
   - Don't commit `.env` to version control
   - Use Docker secrets in production environments

3. **Client Secret**
   - Keep your ST_CLIENT_SECRET confidential
   - Use environment variables, never hardcode
   - Rotate periodically

4. **Flask Secret Key**
   - Set a strong SECRET_KEY for production
   - Required for session management
   - Change from default value

## Required Scopes

The application requires these SmartThings OAuth scopes:
- `r:devices:*` - Read device information
- `x:devices:*` - Execute device commands

Add these when configuring your OAuth application in SmartThings Developer Workspace.

## Rollback

If you need to rollback to PAT-based authentication:

1. Ensure `SMARTTHINGS_PAT` is set in your environment
2. Remove or unset OAuth variables (`ST_CLIENT_ID`, `ST_REFRESH_TOKEN`)
3. Restart the container

The application will automatically detect and use PAT when OAuth is not configured.

## Support

For issues or questions:
- Check logs: `docker logs tv-app-launcher`
- Verify configuration: `curl http://localhost:5000/config`
- Review environment variables: `docker exec tv-app-launcher env | grep ST_`
